ProofRun: broken storefront demo
Presenter script — approximately 3 minutes

Example: https://github.com/Eman-Gon/proofrun-broken-demo
Dashboard: http://localhost:8765
Pinned example revision: 1368aaaa4f2e3f0d91f70b86a4c8c37f79485d1b

Before presenting

Open the dashboard and this repository's README in separate tabs. The current
dashboard header says "Hackday Idea"; the project being demonstrated is ProofRun.
Keep the terminal demonstration ready before recording so dependency setup is
outside the presentation. The terminal helper is a separate local demonstration;
its results do not change the dashboard's verification status.

Fast replay on this prepared machine (from the ProofRun directory):
    python3.12 scripts/demo-broken-storefront.py --prepared .commit-watch/broken-demo-walkthrough

First run on another machine with this ProofRun checkout, Git and Python 3.12:
    python3.12 scripts/demo-broken-storefront.py

The first-run command downloads the pinned example and installs its dependencies
in a dedicated virtual environment. Both modes create fresh copies, run the
existing tests, and save a new evidence directory under .commit-watch/broken-demo-replays/.
The helper returns success when the expected before/after demonstration is
reproduced, even though both full suites intentionally remain red.

Rehearsed browser result: September 29, 2026, 5:48 PM Pacific. Scan
f600d37248f94f2882469a379492e2bb retained 14 eligible files, discovered 3 dependency
declarations and returned 12 static migration findings: 8 Pydantic, 3 pandas,
and 1 web-vitals. OpenRouter denied access, so the agent read 0 files and ran
0 tests. The following talk track accurately presents that available flow.

0:00–0:25 | Show the example repository

"A dependency update can change what your application accepts, even when the
code still looks reasonable. This is a small, intentionally broken storefront
with synthetic data. Its 25 Python tests give us a concrete behavior contract:
two pass, and 23 expose deliberate defects. Let's use ProofRun to inspect a
specific issue and see what evidence we can get for a fix."

0:25–0:50 | Public repository → paste URL → Check repository

Paste: https://github.com/Eman-Gon/proofrun-broken-demo

"I paste the repository URL and click Check repository. ProofRun records the
exact commit, reads the dependency declarations, and displays findings with
source locations and proposed changes. This run returns twelve migration
warnings. Model access is unavailable today, which the report makes explicit,
so these results come from the static checks."

0:50–1:25 | Scroll to broken_shop/models.py:7

Find the first Pydantic card, titled "Review whether this nullable field may be
omitted," and point at the nickname change.

"Here's the customer nickname field. The code says Optional[str], but under
Pydantic 2 that permits a null value without making the field optional to send.
The existing test expects a customer without a nickname to be accepted.
ProofRun suggests adding an explicit None default. It's one line, tied to this
file and revision. The card still says unverified because this scan did not
execute the tests."

Shown patch:
    - nickname: Optional[str]
    + nickname: Optional[str] = None

1:25–2:05 | Show the separate local terminal demonstration

"Now I'm independently checking that exact suggestion in a disposable local
copy. The original nickname test fails. With the one-line change, it passes.
The controls still accept explicit null and reject an object as a nickname.
The existing tests and their assertions are unchanged."

"The full suite moves from two passing tests to three. Twenty-two deliberate
failures remain. This gives us evidence for the nickname repair while keeping
the rest of the storefront's problems visible. These terminal results are
separate from the saved dashboard scan."

2:05–2:35 | Return to nickname card → Create PR

Click the card's Create PR button to open the preview. Point to the repository,
reviewed commit, proposed patch, and unverified label. Click Cancel after showing
the preview; the second Create PR button would publish a branch and PR.

"The review handoff shows the exact change, target repository, and source
revision. The preview also preserves this scan's unverified status. An engineer
can inspect the suggestion and its limitations before deciding to publish it
for review."

2:35–3:00 | Open scan report

"The saved report records the dependencies, source findings, review status,
and what actually ran. That gives us a clear next step: a small proposed fix,
tests that demonstrate its effect, and an honest view of the work remaining.
That's the workflow we're demonstrating with ProofRun."

Presentation notes

The red baseline is expected: 11 assertion failures plus 12 errors, not 23
assertion failures. After the nickname-only fix, expect 11 failures plus 11
errors. The JavaScript migration has no browser test in this example.

For a UI-only two-minute version, omit the terminal segment and say:
"This is a source-backed suggestion. The next step is to run the existing
nickname test and its controls before accepting the change."

If a later scan completes agent review, describe its actual findings, source
files read, and test evidence. A successful selected test run establishes only
that scope; it does not establish that the full repository is correct.

The BAND banner belongs to a separate customer-import fixture run. Keep it out
of this example's story. The Neo4j graph records source/finding/fix relationships;
its presence does not establish that the suggested fix passed tests.

Local scan receipt:
    .commit-watch/broken-demo-walkthrough/live-scan.json

Measured terminal receipt:
    .commit-watch/broken-demo-walkthrough/verification-receipt.json

Successful replay receipt:
    .commit-watch/broken-demo-replays/run-bye7byov/verification-receipt.json

Measured output (Python 3.12.2; Pydantic 2.8.2; pandas 3.0.0):
    Original full suite:      25 tests; 2 passed; 11 failures; 12 errors
    Original nickname checks: 3 tests; 2 passed;  0 failures;  1 error
    Patched nickname checks:  3 tests; 3 passed;  0 failures;  0 errors
    Patched full suite:       25 tests; 3 passed; 11 failures; 11 errors
